Hello Mikayla,

My name is Devin Bayly and I’m a graduate of the Neuroscience and Cognitive Science department at the University of Arizona. I’m writing to you about a story that may appeal to you as a fellow NSCS department graduate and a science reporter for the Arizona Daily Star. The story is about a novel idea my grandfather stumbled upon that has unaccountably been missed and recently covered in a Daily Wildcat article published by their science writer Jillian Bartsch.

Let me explain our idea with a simple example. Consider two rhyming words like champagne and membrane, or any two you like: a small pleasure is felt when the second word is heard forming a rhyming link with the first. These two inputs to the brain generate an output so there must be a system of neurons to make the link. This is our idea, that such a system of neurons must exist, or said differently, that this link is supported by a biological mechanism. 

How this link is accomplished remains unknown and largely uninvestigated despite its abundant use in everyone’s daily lives. The situation is not unlike the Emperor’s New Clothes. My grandfather and I argue that this system of neuron’s activity is present as a backdrop to most if not all essential human behavior. Most of the members of academia we approach find some way to ignore this critical feature of the psychological landscape effectively failing to see or speak of the naked truth right in front of them. One noteworthy response of dismissal stated the idea is “profoundly important, but profoundly unfashionable”. 


We write to you to ask for your help in circulating this idea that we believe your readers will find interesting. Would you consider a short piece for your paper about our hypotheses and surveyed academic work? If I’ve piqued your interest please consult our pre-print on PsyArXiv at https://psyarxiv.com/mqyz9/. In the article we go further into depth about the manifestations of this Pairing-Induced Positive Affect (PIPA) system, but if you have specific questions don’t hesitate to reach out to me. I hope you are doing well as possible considering the ongoing global pandemic, and I look forward to your reply. 

Sincerely,
Devin Bayly

PS Jillian Bartsch’s article: https://www.wildcat.arizona.edu/article/2021/04/sc-neuron-research