Hello there,

My name is Devin Bayly and I’m the grandson Dr. Brian Bayly of a retired RPI faculty who taught for approximately <Number of Years?> and we have a story that might interest your readers. I have a degree in the field of Neuroscience from the University of Arizona and I've been working alongside my grandfather to disseminate a novel idea relating to behavioral science. This idea has been unaccountably missed by the field at large and only recently covered by public media in a University of Arizona Daily Wildcat article published by their science writer Jillian Bartsch. I feel a story of intergenerational collaboration on a novel scientific hypothesis featuring a retired RPI faculty would be of interest to your readers. 

Let me explain our idea with a simple example. Consider two rhyming words like champagne and membrane, or any two you like: a small pleasure is felt when the second word is heard forming a rhyming link with the first. These two inputs to the brain generate an output so there must be a system of neurons to make the link. This is our idea, that such a system of neurons must exist, or said differently, that this link is supported by a biological mechanism.

How this link is accomplished remains unknown and largely uninvestigated despite its abundant use in everyone’s daily lives. The situation is not unlike the Emperor’s New Clothes. My grandfather and I argue that this system of neuron’s activity is present as a backdrop to most if not all essential human behavior. Most of the members of academia we approach find some way to ignore this critical feature of the psychological landscape effectively failing to see or speak of the naked truth right in front of them. One noteworthy response of dismissal stated the idea is “profoundly important, but profoundly unfashionable”. 

We write to you to ask for your help in circulating this idea. Would you consider a feature article for your newspaper based around our story, hypothesis, and surveyed academic work? Our interest in writing to you is not to escape the peer review process, in fact quite the opposite. We hope to prompt subsequent empirical studies weighing in on the existence of such a system.

If I’ve piqued your interest please consult our pre-print on PsyArXiv at https://psyarxiv.com/mqyz9/. In the article we go further into depth about the manifestations of this Pairing-Induced Positive Affect (PIPA) system, but if you have specific questions don’t hesitate to reach out to me. I hope you are doing well as possible considering the ongoing global pandemic, and I look forward to your reply. 

Sincerely,
Devin Bayly


PS Jillian Bartsch’s article: https://www.wildcat.arizona.edu/article/2021/04/sc-neuron-research

